Let's not get to the section on advanced object oriented concepts.
What are these advanced object concepts and what do you want to discuss in this specific section.
So if we would start with polymorphism we would look at other things like instance of operator.
I mean that's kind of a basic thing.
Not really complex.
We look at coupling causation encapsulation and things like that as well during this section.
Other than that we would look at class static in a class and can you create classes within a method
itself.
And we would also look at what is an anonymous class.
Those are the different things that we will discuss as part of this action on advanced object oriented
concepts.
As usual we would look at a lot of code examples and I would really recommend you to when you are seeing
an example here.
I would really recommend you to open that example in the code and see how it's working.
So that's an exercise you should keep doing all this because just looking at it here might not really
give you the complete understanding.
I would really recommend you to spend some time on the idea with these examples and look at them and
understand them completely.
Let's start with what is polymorphism.
Polymorphism is basically defined as same code giving different behavior.
So the same piece of code won't run at different times.
It gives you different behavior.
Aha sounds interesting.
What's that all about.
Let's create a simple example.
Mean we have an Animal class which in its shouts is don't know and there's a cat and a dog class with
the shout method.
All right then.
And the cat's meow meow and dog is bobo.
So that's basically the example that we have we have an annual class Cat exchanging animal and dog sitting
animal.
And with their respective shot methods defined now look at this cool piece of good animal animal one
is equal to new animal.
So I'm creating a new instance of animal and sending it to a reference variable of type animal.
So I'm calling animal one dart shout.
This print.
Don't know.
So you can try this example that this example is available so you can just search for animal and you
should be able to see that.
You can go there and you Ronit you'd see that it's printing don't.
No I'm saying animal animal too is a whole new dog so here it's new animal so I'm taking it.
I'm getting a new instance of dog and putting it in animal reference variable and I'm calling animal
to that shout will it call the shout method in the animal.
No it would print Bo-Bo.
That's basically a dog.
So what it's doing here is even though a reference variable is animal.
And here I am doing animal window out here I'm doing animal to or shout the show method which is actually
called is different based on the object you're referring to here I'm referring to the animal objects
or animal shout is called.
And here I'm referring to the dog object so dog shout is God.
So even though the reference is the dimethyl in walk is the since the content of the object is different
you're calling two different methods that basically what is called polymorphism.
So basically what this allows us to do is I can create 10 different instances of animals I can loop
around them and in the shout method and the shout method might be called on different animals.
That's the magic of polymorphism.
The important thing to note is that the dog has a methedrine.
You cannot say something like animals to to run because that method is not available.
So when I'm using an animal reference variable the only method to carry a label are the ones which are
exposed by animal.
Even though dog class has an extra method called Run and I'm showing a dog instance in the animal I
would not be able to call something like animal to run backward give you a compilation to summarize
the reference area bill will allow you to call only the methods which are available in that particular
reference to animal would only allow you to an animal different would only allow you to call shout method
because that's the only one which is defined in animals.
How we were based on the content of the object which is referenced so based on the object which is referenced
by this variable the method which is invoked might be different.
So instead of calling the shout method inside the animal if the animal reference to a reference to a
cat or dog it can call the appropriate method Choat method from a cat or appropriate child method from
a dog that basically what is called polymorphs them the next question we would want to discuss is what
is the use of instant of operator.
You sort of operate in sort of operator basically checks if there's an if an object is of a specific
type.
So here if you look at it there are a lot of class and hierarchies that we are defining.
So we have a subclass extending superclass and we have a superclass implementing this interface and
also a subclass tool which is implement extending the superclass implementing interface.
It's a little complicated but don't worry about it.
Basically the summary is this is a complex hierarchy Jame and some of the class is the one which is
not extending anything.
So it extends object.
So if I'm creating a few instances a subclass instance and actually creating a subclass instance and
putting it in object that allowed because object is the superclass of all the classes subclass too.
And I'm also creating an instance of the some of the class.
So is that class instance of subclass.
Yes.
So because it contains the same class subclass an instance of superclass yes is a subclass object and
instance of superclass you endl it's referenced by object variable the instance which we're putting
in is that of a subclass So the answer would be true.
When we use the instance of operator.
The most important thing is what object is it referring to.
So here this subclass object is referring to a subclass object so it's it is referencing an object of
the type subclass so subclass instance of superclass.
Yes it is so true.
So that's basically why instance off can be used.
The thing is instance or it can also be used with interfaces so you can see it here subclass.
It is an intuitive interface.
Yes because we define the interface in here and the subclass is also an element in the interface.
So the subclass to you can see it here is implementing that particular class which is implementing the
interface so it's class do is is an instance of interface disappears.
It is not an instance of some other class that would require new forms.
So basically the thing that you need to understand here is in of operator is used to check with if an
object is of a specific type and the type can either be a class or an interface and ensures that a subclass
will give you if you check instance off on it with any of its superclasses as well and same is the case
of interfaces.
And instead of a class which is implementing an interface if you check it with the instance of any of
those interfaces you'd get it.
True even if the superclass is the one actually implementing that particular interface.
If this is really confusing don't worry at all we have this all nailed down for you.
There's an example which is present in our project.
All you need to do is do a complete shifty search for instance of examples.
So this instance for example contains all the examples that we discussed.
Now you can play around with that as an exercise and you can see that all the things that we were talking
about are running well.
So this would be a good exercise for you to understand the influence of operator completely.